jobs are stressful that's just life a
lot of people I talked to think that
being a self-employed photographer would
be awesome because it would eliminate
their stress you know you love
photography right you might even use it
as stress relief now I actually talked
about that in one of my recent videos
and you know what let me tell you
firsthand not having a nine-to-five
office job it is great but there are
still plenty of things to stress out
about one of those things might be the
decision to quit that nine to five and
go it alone as a photographer the
majority of people that i talked to want
to start in weddings and portraits and
maybe sports and they want to know how
to do that earlier today I actually
posted an article on snapchat calm that
I wrote on why those genres might be the
right place to start but maybe not in
the article i talked about thinking
outside the box a little and finding a
type of photography that that you are
passionate about because getting up
every day having to photograph something
that you don't really like it can get to
be a grind and it can make your self
employment just as stressful as that
hateful 925 office job now not to get
too off topic but something I haven't
talked to you guys about is my love of
learning if something catches my
interest I head to the internet or to
the library and I read about it one of
my biggest interests is philosophy or
really just how different people think
and why in researching stoic philosophy
a couple of years ago I stumbled across
something that quite literally changed
my life there's a method of
problem-solving for for lack of a better
term that is a part of the philosophy
and i'd like to share it with you today
it has definitely made my life so much
easier so i'm going to play professor
every time that i'm in a stressful
situation or I might have anxiety about
something or I'm trying to just make a
big decision I do this exercise it only
has three steps first ask yourself what
is the worst thing that can happen if I
do this for you it might be you know if
I quit this nine to five job and make it
of it being a full-time professional
photographer what is the very worst
thing that I can think of that will
happen is it that you know you won't get
any clients and and will not make enough
money and you know maybe so let's go
with that so second ok pretend the worst
happened I tried to be a full-time
photographer it didn't go so well and i
have found myself penniless I can't pay
my rent I can't pay my health insurance
premium what will I do well I'll get a
job I work with a man if I can't find a
similar job to what I had before I'll
take a lesser job heck I'm gonna wait
tables and keep trying to do photography
on the side the combination of that just
might keep me afloat and I'll still be
doing what I love third ask yourself how
you can prevent all of that from
happening how can i prevent the
penniless state where i have to scramble
to find a job well i could build up my
client base before i quit my office job
i could even take vacation days off work
to new photo jobs if I need to and I
could start saving money you know what a
little cushion would definitely be nice
in the beginning and and I could
definitely make a strict budget for
myself when I do quit my job it just
doesn't seem quite so scary now that
you've boiled it all down does it now I
should probably have said this in the
beginning I'm no stoic expert I've
probably badly butchered this decision
making process regardless though it
works you know it limits your stress by
making you not so scared about things
that haven't even happened yet I do this
even with small decisions that I'm
stressed about or you know and like
worried about and that concludes today's
lecture